Reproduce.md, before:

# Preparing the Environment
For the environment you can either prepare it from scratch or use the containers (both `docker` and `singularity`) we have already created.

## 1. Virtual Environment for Python
First create a virtual environment with the required libraries. For example, to create an venv named `ml`, you can either use the `Anaconda` library or your locally installed `python`.

## 1.1 Option A: Anaconda
If you have `Anaconda` installed locally, follow the instructions [here](https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html). An example code,

```
conda create -n ml python=3.10
conda activate ml
```
This will activate the venv `ml`.


## 1.1 Option B: Python PIP

If you only have `python` installed but no `pip`, installed pip and activate a virtual env using the following commands from [here](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/),

On linux/macOS :

```bash
python3 -m pip install --user --upgrade pip
python3 -m pip install --user virtualenv
python3 -m venv ml
source ml/bin/activate
python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

On windows :
```bash
py -m pip install --upgrade pip
py -m pip install --user virtualenv
py -m venv ml
.\env\Scripts\activate
py -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Follow the instructions [here](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/) to make sure you have the `pip` and `virtualenv` installed and working. Then create a virtual environement (e.g. name ml) or install required libraries in the default env, using the 

## 1.2 Install Required Libraries
Once you have the virtual environment created and running, you can download the libraries using, the [requirement.txt](/requirements.txt) file. 

On linux/macOS :

```bash
python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

On windows :
```bash
py -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

You can test whether the environment has been installed properly using a small dataset in the [`train.py`](/TFT-pytorch/script/train_simple.py) file.

## 1.3 Installing CUDA
The default versions installed with `pytorch-forecasting` might not work and print cpu instead for the following code. Since it doesn't install CUDA with pytorch.

```python
import torch

device = torch.device("cuda") if torch.cuda.is_available() else torch.device("cpu")
print(f'Using {device} backend')
```

In such case, replace existing CUDA with the folowing version. Anything newer didn't work for now.
```bash
pip install torch==1.11.0+cu113 torchvision==0.12.0+cu113 torchaudio==0.11.0+cu113 -f https://download.pytorch.org/whl/torch_stable.html
```

## 2. Containers
If you don't want to setup the environment from scratch and would rather use contaier, use one of the following options.

## 2.1 Singularity
You can either pull the singularity container from the remote library,
```bash
singularity pull tft_pytorch.sif library://khairulislam/collection/tft_pytorch:latest
```
Or create the container locally using the [singularity.def](/TFT-pytorch/singularity.def) file. Executeg the following command. This uses the definition file to create the container from scratch. Note that is uses `sudo` and requires root privilege. After compilation, you'll get a container named `tft_pytorch.sif`. 

```bash
sudo singularity build tft_pytorch.sif singularity.def
```

Then you can use the container to run the scripts. For example, 
```bash
cd original-TFT-baseline/script/

singularity run --nv ../../tft_pytorch.sif python train.py --config=baseline.json --output=../scratch/TFT_baseline
```

## 2.2 Docker

[Dockerfile](/Dockerfile) contains the docker buidling definitions. You can build the container using 
```
docker build -t tft_pytorch
```
This creates a container with name tag tft_pytorch. The run our scripts inside the container.

## Google Colab

If you are running on **Google colab**, most libraries are already installed there. You'll only have to install the pytorch forecasting and lightning module. Add the following installation commands in the code. Upload the `TFT-pytorch` folder in your drive and set that filepaths accordingly.

```python
!pip install pytorch_lightning
!pip install pytorch_forecasting
```

If you want to run the data preparation notebook, upload the [CovidMay17-2022](../dataset_raw/CovidMay17-2022/) folder too. Modify the paths accordingly in the notebook.

# How to Reproduce

Given you have the environment ready, you can use the [Related Works](/Related%20Works/) folder to reproduce the baseline models we compared our TFT-model performance with. Use the [TFT-pytorch](/TFT-pytorch/) folder to reproduce the TFT-model training and interpretation.

Commit message:

Added section to Reproduce.md (#51)
Update Reproduce.md with Troubleshooting Tips for Reproducing Locally section

Reproduce.md, after:

# Preparing the Environment
For the environment you can either prepare it from scratch or use the containers (both `docker` and `singularity`) we have already created.

## 1. Virtual Environment for Python
First create a virtual environment with the required libraries. For example, to create an venv named `ml`, you can either use the `Anaconda` library or your locally installed `python`.

## 1.1 Option A: Anaconda
If you have `Anaconda` installed locally, follow the instructions [here](https://conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/user-guide/tasks/manage-environments.html). An example code,

```
conda create -n ml python=3.10
conda activate ml
```
This will activate the venv `ml`.


## 1.1 Option B: Python PIP

If you only have `python` installed but no `pip`, installed pip and activate a virtual env using the following commands from [here](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/),

On linux/macOS :

```bash
python3 -m pip install --user --upgrade pip
python3 -m pip install --user virtualenv
python3 -m venv ml
source ml/bin/activate
python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

On windows :
```bash
py -m pip install --upgrade pip
py -m pip install --user virtualenv
py -m venv ml
.\env\Scripts\activate
py -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

Follow the instructions [here](https://packaging.python.org/en/latest/guides/installing-using-pip-and-virtual-environments/) to make sure you have the `pip` and `virtualenv` installed and working. Then create a virtual environement (e.g. name ml) or install required libraries in the default env, using the 

## 1.2 Install Required Libraries
Once you have the virtual environment created and running, you can download the libraries using, the [requirement.txt](/requirements.txt) file. 

On linux/macOS :

```bash
python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

On windows :
```bash
py -m pip install -r requirements.txt
```

You can test whether the environment has been installed properly using a small dataset in the [`train.py`](/TFT-pytorch/script/train_simple.py) file.

## 1.3 Installing CUDA
The default versions installed with `pytorch-forecasting` might not work and print cpu instead for the following code. Since it doesn't install CUDA with pytorch.

```python
import torch

device = torch.device("cuda") if torch.cuda.is_available() else torch.device("cpu")
print(f'Using {device} backend')
```

In such case, replace existing CUDA with the folowing version. Anything newer didn't work for now.
```bash
pip install torch==1.11.0+cu113 torchvision==0.12.0+cu113 torchaudio==0.11.0+cu113 -f https://download.pytorch.org/whl/torch_stable.html
```

## 2. Containers
If you don't want to setup the environment from scratch and would rather use contaier, use one of the following options.

## 2.1 Singularity
You can either pull the singularity container from the remote library,
```bash
singularity pull tft_pytorch.sif library://khairulislam/collection/tft_pytorch:latest
```
Or create the container locally using the [singularity.def](/TFT-pytorch/singularity.def) file. Executeg the following command. This uses the definition file to create the container from scratch. Note that is uses `sudo` and requires root privilege. After compilation, you'll get a container named `tft_pytorch.sif`. 

```bash
sudo singularity build tft_pytorch.sif singularity.def
```

Then you can use the container to run the scripts. For example, 
```bash
cd original-TFT-baseline/script/

singularity run --nv ../../tft_pytorch.sif python train.py --config=baseline.json --output=../scratch/TFT_baseline
```

## 2.2 Docker

[Dockerfile](/Dockerfile) contains the docker buidling definitions. You can build the container using 
```
docker build -t tft_pytorch
```
This creates a container with name tag tft_pytorch. The run our scripts inside the container.

## Google Colab

If you are running on **Google colab**, most libraries are already installed there. You'll only have to install the pytorch forecasting and lightning module. Add the following installation commands in the code. Upload the `TFT-pytorch` folder in your drive and set that filepaths accordingly.

```python
!pip install pytorch_lightning
!pip install pytorch_forecasting
```

If you want to run the data preparation notebook, upload the [CovidMay17-2022](../dataset_raw/CovidMay17-2022/) folder too. Modify the paths accordingly in the notebook.

## Troubleshooting Tips for Reproducing Locally

If you are running [train.py](/TFT-pytorch/script/train.py) run this from the `script` folder. If you run into ModuleNotFoundError after [installing the required libraries](#12-install-required-libraries) try installing each line of `requirements.txt` manually, as in the example below. 

```python
pip install pytorch-lightning==1.8.6
```

The input .csv file can be found on line 58 of [train.py](/TFT-pytorch/script/train.py) and you may want to change this to `Top_100.csv` to use a smaller dataset when running locally.

# How to Reproduce

Given you have the environment ready, you can use the [Related Works](/Related%20Works/) folder to reproduce the baseline models we compared our TFT-model performance with. Use the [TFT-pytorch](/TFT-pytorch/) folder to reproduce the TFT-model training and interpretation.
